Add deprecations introduced in v6 (#249)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/migration/index.adoc

  - `implicitEqualFilters`
  - `deprecatedOptionsArgument`
  - `directedArgument`
  - `connectOrCreate`
  - `typename_IN`
  - `implicitSet`
  - `idAggregations`

>   - `directedArgument`

Reviewer: looks like this line is still duplicate? (vs line 314)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Following the deprecation of the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/query-tuning/#cypher-connect-components-planner[`connectComponentsPlanner`], the field is no longer accepted in the GraphQL context and is removed from the `cypherQueryOptions` object.

=== Removed support for the Object Graph Mapper (OGM)

The OGM is discontinued with version 6.0.0 of the GraphQL Library.
Version 5 (LTS) is the last version to feature the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/graphql/5/ogm[OGM].

== Deprecations and warnings

> The following deprecations and warnings have been added to version 6. These will be removed in the next major version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a list of deprecations and warnings from version 5.0.0 to 6.0.0.
```
this would be in line with the text in "Breaking changes"
alternatively, we can skip this entirely and go from the h2 directly to the first item

`typename_IN` filter has been deprecated in favor of `typename`.

`typename_IN` can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `typename_IN` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            typename_IN: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated aggregations on ID fields

Aggregations on ID fields are now deprecated and will be removed in the future.

ID fields in aggregations can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `idAggregations` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            idAggregations: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated `@unique` directive

The xref::/directives/indexes-and-constraints.adoc#_unique[`@unique`] directive will no longer be supported in future versions.
It cannot always be reliably enforced, potentially leading to data inconsistencies that don't match the schema.

> The `@unique` directive has been removed as it could not always be reliably enforced, potentially leading to data inconsistencies that did not match the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

557/558 cover this i think :)

`typename_IN` filter has been deprecated in favor of `typename`.

`typename_IN` can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `typename_IN` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            typename_IN: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated aggregations on ID fields

Aggregations on ID fields are now deprecated and will be removed in the future.

ID fields in aggregations can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `idAggregations` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            idAggregations: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated `@unique` directive

> The `@unique` directive will no longer be supported in future versions:
> [source, graphql, indent=0]
> ----
> type Movie implements Production @node {
>     title: String! @unique
>     actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: IN, properties: "ActedIn")
> }
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The xref::/directives/indexes-and-constraints.adoc#_unique[`@unique`] directive will no longer be supported in future versions.
It cannot always be reliably enforced, potentially leading to data inconsistencies that don't match the schema.
```

i dropped the code listing entirely and added a link instead

=== Deprecated `overwrite` argument in `connect`

The `overwrite` argument in `connect` operations has been deprecated.
This is part of the overarching changes to how `connect` operations work in version 7.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  updateMovies(
    where: { title_EQ: "Matrix" }
    update: {
      actors: {
        connect: { overwrite: true, where: { node: { name_EQ: "Keanu" } } }
      }
    }
  ) {
    movies {
      title
    }
  }
}
----

=== Deprecated `connectOrCreate` mutation

The `connectOrCreate` mutation is deprecated and will be removed in the next major version:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation CreateActors {
  updateActors(
    update: {
      movies: {
        connectOrCreate: [{ where: { node: { title_EQ: "The Matrix" } } }]
      }
    }
  ) {
    actors {
      name
    }
  }
}
----

`connectOrCreate` mutations can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `connectOrCreate` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            connectOrCreate: true
        }
    }
})
----

> === Deprecated `*aggregate` fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deprecated `*Aggregate` fields
```

Top level and nested `*Aggregate` fields have been deprecated in favor of `aggregate` fields inside connections: 

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Before | Now

a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    moviesAggregate {
        rating {
            min
        }
    }
}
----
a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    moviesConnection {
        aggregate {
            node {
                rating {
                    min
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
----
|===

> `*aggregate` fields can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `deprecatedAggregateOperations` set to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`*Aggregate` fields can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `deprecatedAggregateOperations` set to `true`:
```

`typename_IN` filter has been deprecated in favor of `typename`.

`typename_IN` can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `typename_IN` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            typename_IN: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated aggregations on ID fields

Aggregations on ID fields are now deprecated and will be removed in the future.

ID fields in aggregations can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `idAggregations` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            idAggregations: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated `@unique` directive

Unique directive will no longer be supported.

> No longer supported in future versions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@unique` directive will no longer be supported in future versions:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie implements Production @node {
    title: String! @unique
    actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: IN, properties: "ActedIn")
}

> ----

Reviewer: what can a user do to achieve something similar?

Author: I don't think we really provide any alternative to this at the moment. The issue with `@unique` is that it isn't really supported by neo4j itself, so it is very unreliable

Reviewer: could/should we communicate the fact that it was unreliable? (unreliable how? no way of ensuring uniqueness?)

Author: There were some cases in which the uniqueness could not be enforced, leading to data that doesn't match the schema. I'm not sure how to properly communicate this

Reviewer 2: Do we usually write motivations for deprecations?

Perhaps we can write something like this:

> The `@unique` directive has been removed as it could not always be reliably enforced, potentially leading to data inconsistencies that did not match the schema.

> === Deprecate `overwrite` argument in `connect`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deprecated `overwrite` argument in `connect`
```

The `overwrite` argument in `connect` operations has been deprecated.

> This is part of the overarching changes to how `connect` operations work in 7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is part of the overarching changes to how `connect` operations work in version 7.
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  updateMovies(
    where: { title_EQ: "Matrix" }
    update: {
      actors: {
        connect: { overwrite: true, where: { node: { name_EQ: "Keanu" } } }
      }
    }
  ) {
    movies {
      title
    }
  }
}
----

> === Deprecated the `connectOrCreate` operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deprecated `connectOrCreate` mutation
```

> `connectOrCreate` mutations are deprecated and will be removed in the next major version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `connectOrCreate` mutation is deprecated and will be removed in the next major version:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation CreateActors {
  updateActors(
    update: {
      movies: {
        connectOrCreate: [{ where: { node: { title_EQ: "The Matrix" } } }]
      }
    }
  ) {
    actors {
      name
    }
  }
}
----

`connectOrCreate` mutations can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `connectOrCreate` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            connectOrCreate: true
        }
    }
})
----

=== Deprecated `*aggregate` fields

> Top level and nested `*Aggregate` fields have been deprecated in favor of `aggregate` fields inside connections: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Top level and nested `*Aggregate` fields have been deprecated in favor of `aggregate` fields inside connections: 
```

Author: I think this one was correct, for instance `moviesAggregate` has the casing as `Aggregate`

Reviewer: in the heading (line 630) it was lower case, likewise in the text following the code listing (line 664).
let's make it consistent then :)

Reviewer 2: The mixed casing seems to be important in this. `*Aggregate` (note the *) for example moviesAggregate, has been removed, and replaced with a `aggregate`.

Reviewer: so upper case for all "*" ?

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Before | Now

a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    moviesAggregate {
        rating {
            min
        }
    }
}
----
a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    moviesConnection {
        aggregate {
            node {
                rating {
                    min
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
----
|===

`*aggregate` fields can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `deprecatedAggregateOperations` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            deprecatedAggregateOperations: true
        }
    }
})
----

> ==== `count` fields changes in new `aggregate` fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== `count` field changes in new `aggregate` fields
```

> The `count` fields in `aggregate` are different to old `count`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `count` field inside `aggregate` fields differs from the old `count` and now contains `nodes`:
```

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Before | Now

a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query Movies {
    moviesAggregate {
        count
    }
}
----
a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    moviesConnection {
        aggregate {
            count {
                nodes
            }
        }
    }
}
----
|===

=== Implicit set operation

> Setting fields in operations should append the operator `_SET`, the previous form using directly the field name is deprecated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting fields in operations must append the `_SET` operator.
The previous format which only uses the field name is deprecated:
```

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Before | Now

a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  updateMovies(update: { title: "The Matrix" }) {
    movies {
      title
    }
  }
}
----
a|
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  updateMovies(update: { title_SET: "The Matrix" }) {
    movies {
      title
    }
  }
}
----
|===

Implicit set input fields can be disabled from the generated schema with the option `implicitSet` set to `true`:

[source, javascript]
----
new Neo4jGraphQL({
    features: {
        excludeDeprecatedFields: {
            implicitSet: true
        }
    }
})
----

> === Deprecate `@private` directive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deprecated `@private` directive
```

> This directive is deprecated and will be removed in the next version of the library. `@private` is intended to be used with the `OGM`, which is no longer supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@private` directive is deprecated and will be removed in the next version of the library.
`@private` was intended to be used with the OGM, which is no longer supported.
```
